[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>DAVID WILCOCK:
I'm David Wilcock.
And welcome back to
another exciting episode
of "Disclosure."
Here is the good stuff.
John Anthony West has completely
redefined Egyptian scholarship
as we know it.
And by kind of getting in and
hacking the DNA of the very,
very arcane and dense work of
R.A. Schwaller de Lubicz, he
has redefined what we think we
know about Egyptian culture.
The traditional
mundane view of Egypt
is that it all
fits in very nicely
with conventional
orthodox views.
And John Anthony
West, of course,
is most well known for the
Sphinx water weathering
argument.
In my interview
with Graham Hancock,
we also talk about how
John Anthony West was
part of an expedition in which
they did seismograph readings
and found a cathedral-sized
chamber under the paws
of the Sphinx, just like
the Edgar Cayce readings
said it would be there.
And when we look at how John
Anthony West has redefined
Egyptian orthodox
view, what we're seeing
is that they were
very, very involved
in the quest for immortality.
Immortality is a
major, major focus,
in fact, the central
axis, upon which
all of Egyptian
philosophy revolves.
So think about this.
Immortality may actually be
the concept of ascension.
I ask him that point-blank
in this episode.
And he tells me that is,
in fact, what's going on.
The Egyptians knew and aspired
to the idea that being human
is just a stage in our
development and that,
as we move forward, we can
become more than human.
We can become light beings.
We can become cosmic beings,
free from the shackles of death
and the bounds of mortality.
When we get the chance to talk
to someone like John Anthony
West, we have a
rare opportunity.
He has a fertile mind, and he
has been doing this research.
He's out there on the front
lines, battling the skeptics,
and showing us concrete
proof that this Atlantean
civilization is, in fact, much
older than we give it credit
for.
One of the things you're going
to hear about in this interview
is a very enigmatic
new site that
has been found in Indonesia
called Gunung Padang that
has huge, huge basaltic
blocks that normally would be
vertical, but they have
been clearly, intelligently
manipulated into position.
And as he says, the
dating of these blocks
could be as much as
20,000 years old.
And the more they dig down,
the more they're finding.
So everything we think we know
is being called into question.
And once we are
confronted with this idea
that a highly technologically
advanced civilization existed
on Earth before, we then
have to ask questions like,
did all of the people that were
living on Earth at the time
of Atlantis actually die?
Or did some of them have
space-based platforms?
Did some of them survive,
and are they, in fact,
still out there today?
Well, you're going to hear
John Anthony West quote Victor
Hugo in saying that there is
one thing stronger than all
the armies in the world.
And that is an idea
whose time has come.
This is the time, and
here comes the idea.
This is John Anthony West.
Enjoy.
So John, the subject
of Atlantis is
one of the most fascinating
subjects for our viewers.
And you certainly have
been a huge pioneer
in bringing
credibility to the idea
that many of these ancient
monuments around the world
could be a lot older.
But again, it's
called the A-word.
People don't like the A-word.
Academics are terrified of it.
Graham Hancock never
wants to use the A-word.
So do you think that
there was an Atlantis?
Do you think Atlantis existed?
>>JOHN ANTHONY WEST: Even
when I wrote "Serpent
in the Sky," which is
more than 30 years ago,
I was wise enough to
put quotation marks
around Atlantis.
The quackademics forget
about the quotation marks
and accuse me of being
an Atlantis freak.
I think that there was
no-- I'll put it this way--
not necessarily a physical
Atlantis in the middle
of the Atlantic Ocean,
a la Plato's account,
but that there was a
global civilization that
went down under
catastrophic circumstances.
The Atlantis part
of it is not proved.
But the cataclysm that brought
down that global civilization
is now verging on
irrefutable evidence.
Robert Schoch is doing
a lot of work on that.
>>DAVID: Well, you also wrote
the foreword for Rand and Rose
Flem-Ath's revisited
"When the Sky Fell,"
which they retitled--
>>WEST: Yeah,
that's complicated,
because the Piri Reis
map is the Piri Reis map.
And there's Antarctica.
But the geological
cores-- I forget
what they called them--
ice cores, sediment cores,
according to Schoch,
that should show
that there was a crustal
shift don't show that.
So that's now problematical.
It doesn't destroy the validity
of those very ancient maps
that somebody, somewhere, knew
that the Americas were there
and that Antarctica was there.
But it's a somewhat
different scenario
now than when Rose and Rand
wrote that particular book,
which was long ago.
I forget when it was, the early
'80s or something like that,
I think.
>>DAVID: But we do know, with
the Younger Dryas period,
that there was a sudden rise
in sea level around the world.
>>WEST: No, that's-- the Younger
Dryas brings in-- this is
double catastrophe.
Graham was talking about that
yesterday at the symposium.
The Younger Dryas sets
off of a deeper ice age.
It's the ice age, and it goes
a sharp drop in temperature.
And then, around the time that
Plato-- very close, 9700 or so
BC, there's a tremendous
cataclysmic event,
probably a Carrington Event
of immensely more magnitude--
Schoch is doing a lot of work on
this-- that actually takes out
Atlantis between quotes.
It destroys, almost
in its entirety,
that global civilization.
>>DAVID: What is a
Carrington Event?
>>WEST: They call
them a CME now.
It's a Coronal Mass Ejection.
It's a gigantic solar flare.
And the Carrington Event
itself-- it was 1859
or so-- it destroyed the
electrical grid at that time,
which was just telegraph wires.
So that was not a catastrophe.
If we had even a
Carrington Event, which
is a relatively minor
CME, if we had one today,
it would fry everything.
We wouldn't be doing
this interview.
We probably wouldn't be here
or on the face of the planet,
maybe.
>>DAVID: So do you think that
the destruction of Atlantis
could be the result
of a coronal mass
ejection coming from the sun?
>>WEST: That's the best
theory that we have today.
Robert Schoch's working on this.
And it's based upon the
very solid, un-woowoo work
of a plasma physicist
named Anthony Peratt, who
works for the Los
Alamos-- whatever it
is-- Nuclear Research Center.
And so the evidence is getting
better and better for that.
Like all of the evidence
we've been talking about,
it's complicated.
>>DAVID: What do you
think about the fact
that this coronal mass ejection,
this massive solar event,
occurred exactly one half of
the precession of the equinoxes
ago in actual years?
>>WEST: It might
just be coincidence.
As far as I know, the people who
are studying the sequent CMEs
have not found a
periodicity to it.
It's not as though,
so far, anyone
can find that it happens every
12,000 years or every 36,000
years or anything like that.
But that it does
happen periodically,
that seems to be
well-established.
And Schoch is of the
opinion-- and it's
an informed opinion-- that
we're sort of ready for one now.
And if it happens-- when he
says that, it doesn't mean
that it's tomorrow,
and it doesn't even
mean that it's next century--
but somewhere in the centuries
to come, the chances of
one happening, he thinks,
are pretty good.
>>DAVID: Plato's "Timaeus"
and "Critias," of course, he
mentions Atlantis in the books.
But the conventional
theory is, well,
people who think that
Atlantis existed,
they're just basing
it off of Plato.
Do you believe that there's
any other information
besides Plato's
original account that
would support the idea of
this global civilization?
>>WEST: Sure.
I mean, there's our work.
There's Schwaller's work,
there's Laird Scranton's work,
there's all the stuff that
Graham has been working on.
There's Gobekli Tepe that
disappears that they cover over
deliberately.
Now, in Indonesia,
there's Gunung Padang,
which looks as though it's
fantastically ancient.
There's a ton of
evidence out there.
But the Plato myth
itself is complicated.
The Atlantis hunters are
always looking-- every month,
somebody says it's here, it's
there, it's somewhere else.
The Atlantis hunters
are basically
looking only at Plato.
There's a very interesting book
called "The Pythagorean Plato"
by a musicologist and Sufi named
Ernest G. McClain-- I think
he may still be alive, he'd be
10 years older or so than I am;
that's old-- in which
he demonstrates pretty
convincingly that the story
of Atlantis, as told by Plato,
is actually a musical
allegory designed
to inform his musically
initiated pupils of how harmony
in music, representing
the philosopher king,
degenerates into tyranny
by musical rules, actually.
And initially, as
I understand it,
McClain didn't want to even
hear about the Sphinx, which
actually basically proves
that there was an Atlantis,
within inverted quotes.
And somewhere along the
line, I understand--
I never got in touch
with him-- weird,
I could've-- his book came out
around the same time as "The
Serpent."
Now I'm about to
rewrite, upgrade not
"The Serpent," but "The
Traveler's Key," which
is my guidebook to Egypt.
And that will incorporate
McClain's work,
because I think what it is
is that Plato actually gets
the basic story of Atlantis,
of cataclysm and destruction
of civilization, from
Solon, his grandfather,
and then turns that into
this musical allegory of how
harmony becomes disharmony.
So both are actually
valid and are
complimentary, rather than
antithetical, to each other.
>>DAVID: Well, you mentioned
something that's new
and that most people don't know
about, which is Gunung Padang.
Could you sort of give
us the basic 101 on that?
>>WEST: Well, it's
a huge structure
of immense basaltic blocks
in the middle of Indonesia
somewhere.
Schoch has visited
it now, and Hancock
has spent some time there.
And the blocks, so
far, they haven't
been able to see in them a
coherent structure, because it
may be unbelievably old.
But this particular
rock formation
is normally found
as vertical blocks.
And here in Gunung Padang,
it's kind of scattered blocks
that were, at some point or
another, placed horizontally.
They're not as they
would be naturally.
And they keep digging
down, and they
keep on finding this structure
deep under the earth.
So it's still at a beginning
stage of excavation,
and of course, being
battled by the quackademics
in Indonesia-- quackademics
are all over the world,
doesn't matter what
race they're from.
But there's a very brave
Indonesian geologist
who's gathering the forces to
look deeper into Gunung Padang.
So yeah--
>>DAVID: What is
the dating saying
in the dirt around these blocks
as they keep digging down?
How old is it?
>>WEST: I'm not that
familiar with it.
But judging from
Graham's talk yesterday,
they're down somewhere
around 20,000 BC,
and still finding that it's
human-- not human constructed,
I'd say, but that it's--
>>DAVID: There's
intelligence inside.
>>WEST: That's right.
There is intelligence
in the rocks.
Yes, something like that.
>>DAVID: You also mentioned the
Valley Temple of the Sphinx.
Could you cover that again?
Let's just review again
the water weathering
on the back of the Sphinx and
then the Valley Temple blocks.
>>WEST: Well, the water
weathering is not so much
the back of the Sphinx.
The Sphinx is-- all of
it has been weathered.
But a lot of it
had been restored.
It's the enclosure
wall behind the Sphinx
and on the sides of the Sphinx.
That's where the
deepest weathering
is, because that's where
the water came sweeping down
the plateau and over
the walls, producing
much deeper weathering
than on the Sphinx
itself, which only would
have been weathered
by the rainfall falling directly
upon it at some distant time
when there was lots of rain.
And the Valley Temple
is right next door.
And that's constructed
of core masonry,
of huge-- because these are the
ones, the blocks of stone that
weigh 75, 100 tons, that were
quarried out from the trench
that they had to dig
down in order to expose
the core body of the Sphinx.
It's like a cat sitting in
a bathtub, a very big cat
sitting in a bathtub.
And in order to get the
cat so that its body is
free from-- call it
the bathwater, which
happens to be stone, they
have to quarry out all
around that form.
And this they did.
They didn't just chop it out.
They quarried it out
in these huge blocks.
And those huge blocks went to
build this remarkable Valley
Temple, which then subsequently
were faced with huge granite
blocks.
But it's the limestone
blocks that are original.
And even the
academics acknowledge
that those blocks come
out of the trench that
was excavated to produce
the core body of the Sphinx.
But they keep on insisting
still to this day
that it's all 2500 BC.
But they won't be able to keep
up this charade much longer,
because the evidence is piling
up almost on a daily basis.
And if they have
any sense, they'll
either acknowledge that,
heaven forbid, they were wrong,
or go down with the ship.
>>DAVID: And Gobekli
Tepe, as you said before,
is sort of like the smoking gun.
>>WEST: It is absolutely the
smoking gun, all by itself.
>>DAVID: Has anybody mounted
any type of academic objection
to the dating of Gobekli Tepe?
>>WEST: Almost none.
That's what's so
interesting, because it's
done by one of their own.
It's done by an absolutely
orthodox German archaeologist
named Klaus Schmidt,
who unfortunately
died just a few months
ago-- not an old man,
60; by my standards,
that's young--
who was doing all of the work.
And it was his dating.
We were there.
And Schoch had a
lengthy talk with him
and said that the
dating is impeccable.
And so the archaeologists are
just having to swallow that.
What they are doing,
however-- it's
had quite a bit of press,
not major, major press,
but it was the lead
article in, I think,
May 2011 National Geographic.
And the article was not a really
very satisfactory article,
says that this will certainly
provoke certain changes
to the archaeological picture.
It's not that it'll provoke
some sort of changes
to the archaeological-- it
blows the picture completely out
of the water and out of the
pages of their history books.
And so does the Sphinx theory.
But the excuse for
ignoring the Sphinx theory
was always that, well, it was
hunter gatherers back then,
so how could they have built
this amazing structure,
this amazing statue?
And we don't care
about the geology.
We're not geologists.
They simply ignored it.
But they can't
ignore Gobekli Tepe.
And now Gunung
Padang is probably
going to be another nail
in that big coffin that
buries the entire discipline.
>>DAVID: Well,
mainstream egyptologists
use Manetho's king-lists
to date the chronology
of pharaonic dynasties
in Egypt, because Manetho
and others wrote down when
these dynasties took place.
They'd backdate it
to a certain point.
But then, before that,
they'd say, well, everything
before that is a myth.
>>WEST: That's right.
That's what they do.
Manetho is quite right, except
he doesn't give regnal years.
Up until quite
recently, maybe 30,
40 years ago,
various egyptologists
had bitter arguments
with each other.
And there was a
long history that
went back to put the beginnings
of Egypt around 4000 BC.
And there was a short history
that put it back to about 1600
BC.
So that's a huge difference.
And this was within
academia, actually.
But up until Schwaller,
they were simply
ignoring the Palermos down
in the Turin Papyrus that
talk about the rule by
the Neteru themselves
and the Shemsu Hor, the
sort of demiurge kings
that came in later
as simply a fiction.
But now the
combination of Sphinx
and Gobekli Tepe
and Gunung Padang--
and probably, Easter Island
comes into this play,
as well-- it's now becoming
not only respectable,
but at some point or
another, pretty soon, I
think, it's going to
become irrefutable
that this advanced global
civilization existed
in the distant, distant
past and that it went down
under cataclysmic
conditions, which we're now,
I think, satisfactorily
beginning to understand.
And the whole picture
is kind of exciting
as our own stupid society,
the Church of Progress,
is in the process
of self-destruction,
that a number of us
are coming up with,
let's say, the building
blocks to potentially create
a new civilization in
the midst of the chaos.
>>DAVID: It's such
a mysterious concept
to think about a highly advanced
civilization that disappeared.
And as your research
has concluded,
they were very keen
on creating monuments
that had sacred geometry
built into them.
So this suggests some
intrinsic difference
in how they ran
their civilization.
So could you paint
a picture for us
of what you see this very
ancient, antidiluvian
civilization as being like?
>>WEST: Yeah, I think
ancient Egypt and all
of the other civilizations
that arise around 3000,
4000 BC are legacies from
that earlier civilization.
And what fueled
Egypt for 3,000 years
was, in a word, the
quest for immortality,
that we, as human beings,
have the capacity,
through our own inner work--
it doesn't happen just
by rubbing crystals--
through our own inner work,
to achieve a higher level
of consciousness that
is not subject to death, to
the dissolution of the body.
Everything in Egypt was
devoted to that single aim.
And I'm pretty sure
that that could
apply to all of those other
civilizations, all of which
have degenerated down to our
Church of Progress, which,
from a spiritual point
of view, is probably
the nadir of the cycle.
All you have to do is
read the paper any day
now to see that it can't get
much worse than it is now,
despite the shiny technology.
And it's touch and go.
I'm not saying that
all of a sudden
it's going to turn around and
become a civilization again.
But at least we are now being
provided with the building
blocks.
There are a couple of hundred
people at this conference
at the moment.
But there are a million
watching the Kardashians,
or millions watching
the Kardashians,
and "American Idol."
So it's a bit presumptuous
to think that we are actually
going to prevail.
But to go back to the
famous line of Victor Hugo,
"There's one thing stronger than
all the armies in the world,
and that is an idea
whose time has come."
It may be that this is the
idea whose time has come.
What Hugo forgot to mention,
which he didn't think of,
actually, was that the second
strongest thing in the world
is the idea whose
time has not yet gone.
Since the idea that
has not yet gone
has the support of all of
the armies in the world,
be they military or scientific
or educational or whatever,
there's a battle in store.
>>DAVID: Do you feel
that there's research
that you would like to see
about trying to understand
this civilization more
and date its remains
and find its remains?
Do you think there's research
that hasn't been done yet
that could be done?
Would you have any
recommendations?
Or if you had an
unlimited budget
and could just do whatever
you want, what would you
like to see?
>>WEST: Well, push further along
the lines that we're doing.
Go do a certain amount
of deep sea exploration
on the continental
shelves, because that's
where you would expect,
once the sea levels rise,
it covers everything
or virtually
everything that
was there before.
And if we're correct that
this civilization was global,
we should be able
to find more there.
Beyond that, the
budget, actually,
if I had that unlimited
budget, what I would do
is media, in other words,
not so much necessarily
the science, but to get the
message out to everybody, not
just on blogs and
all the rest of it.
And this is where
we're hoping, in fact,
to put the money together for
the follow-up to our "Mystery
of the Sphinx," except
a global upgrade of it,
of traveling to all
of these places,
filming them, and then putting
it out, not first as a TV show,
but in fact, in the cinemas,
in the movie theaters.
And from there--
because the technology
for all my sneering
at it, allows
us to do what was impossible to
do up until a couple of decades
ago.
And that is to get
the message out
to everybody who's interested.
And the proof is actually, our
own "Mystery of the Sphinx,"
probably was seen
over time by a couple
of hundred million peoples.
So the interest
is actually there.
And it's being suppressed,
basically, by the media,
not because they're
thinking that way,
but because that's
just who they are.
The Church of Progress
has its own Jesuits
who are science,
education, and the media.
Science creates the dogma--
life is meaningless,
and it's all an accident.
Education disseminates
the dogma.
And the press, the media,
basically either sugarcoats it
or camouflages it in Kardashians
and the stupidity that's
called entertainment.
>>DAVID: Well, if you had
this worldwide civilization,
and it's all over the world,
where did these people go?
They had high technology,
they had high advancement.
Are any of them left?
Did their lineage survive?
Where did they go?
>>WEST: Well,
wherever they survived
in these little pockets--
and it took a few thousand
years before they could recreate
their civilizations-- India,
China, Egypt-- all of these,
as I said, are legacies.
Almost certainly,
they're legacies.
They start, as far as
our records go back,
almost entirely intact.
But up until that point, they're
not building major structures.
It looks as though,
actually, on the outside
and from the textbook, you'll
see that nothing is going on.
In fact, there was more
going on than you think.
But you just have to
put it all together,
because there are little bits
here and little bits there.
The Met, Metropolitan Museum in
New York, recently had a show,
curated a big show, called
"Origins of Egyptian Art,"
something like that.
And they got all
of the artifacts
that they could find together in
this one very interesting show.
And these were,
for the most part,
quite small things, but often
absolutely elegantly carved,
geometrically perfect.
And they were dating from
Predynastic and Protodynastic
Egypt, 3000 and
4000 and 5000 BC.
Recently, an incredible
obsidian bracelet
was found in Turkey that
they date to 8000 BC.
And even the
academics acknowledge
that this involves a very
sophisticated geometry
in its construction.
Well, that's 8000 BC.
It's supposed to be all hunter
gatherers or rude farmers
back then.
How were they going to do this?
What do they do,
sitting down, saying,
what should we-- make a
little bracelet for the wife,
for the little lady,
for our anniversary?
Let's invent geometry so that
it really looks cool for her.
No-- it means that they're
working with geometry,
they've got the maths to do it.
And you extrapolate from that
the Sphinx and Gobekli Tepe
and all the rest of it.
And the evidence is all there.
Put it this way-- if
it's a big jigsaw puzzle,
there are enough pieces in place
now so that you can sort of
visualize the big picture.
But it's not sort of.
But we kind of know what we're
looking for to get in it.
But again, we don't have
any formal-- none of us
have any formal
backing, financially.
So it's all individuals
doing their own work,
a few of us banding together
here and there, things
like the Paradigm
Symposium spreading
the word, the internet
spreading the word.
But it's still a long way, let's
say, from establishing itself.
In biblical
terminology, the seed
has to fall on fertile ground
for it to sprout and flourish.
And even when it
sprouts, it could
be trampled into the ground
by any wandering jackass.
And meanwhile, though, the
ground has to be prepared.
That means getting rid of all
the brambles and the poison
ivy.
That's sort of my job.
I kind of delight in the
constructive destruction
so that the whole thing can
actually hopefully take root
before we destroy
ourselves and our planet.
>>DAVID: Well, I think the
vast majority of people
agree that you've
done a great job.
So John, I want to thank you--
>>WEST: Thank you, David.
>>DAVID: --for being here.
>>WEST: Thanks so much.
>>DAVID: All right.
John Anthony West said that
if he was given $1 billion
and could do whatever
he wanted with it
for any archaeological
expedition,
that instead of
needing more science,
what he would invest
in is publicity.
Well, I'm very happy to be
able to interview him and all
the top players in this field
for "Disclosure" in this form
that you're seeing now,
because, just as he said,
we're getting rid
of the brambles,
of the poison ivy.
We're clearing the ground so
that the seeds can be planted.
And the seeds of
truth can blossom
into beautiful, fertile, new
vegetables and fruits that
can be very nourishing for us.
When we're coming
up next time, we're
going to have part two of our
interview with Robert Bauval.
And this is where I went
back and drank the haterade.
I went online, and
I looked at what
were the people saying about
him on such illustrious
sites as Wikipedia, which
has been widely implicated
as a target of government
intelligence agencies.
And this has even
been now leaked
on firstlook.org, which
is the site that is now
where Glenn Greenwald
is doing his work
and talking about the
Snowden documents.
We know that the government
is, in fact, targeting people
talking about the
things that I'm
telling you right now, because
they don't want you to know.
But I want you to know.
And that's why we're
doing this show.
Robert Bauval fought
the BBC and won.
And they had to
admit it in writing.
But now, to this day, they're
still claiming on Wikipedia
that his theory has
been discredited,
and they never reference
this groundbreaking lawsuit
that he actually
won against the BBC.
That's coming up next
time, here on "Disclosure."
Check it out.
I'm David Wilcock, and I
thank you for watching.
[MUSIC PLAYING]